>>PATTI NEGRI: When I was a
little kid, I just knew things.
I traveled in other worlds.
I would talk to spirits.
>>GEORGE NOORY: What is a spell?
>>NEGRI: A spell is I'm going
to take this and shift this.
I want a love spell.
I want a money spell.
I want a health spell.
You have to believe,
you have to take action,
and then that spirit
is the battery power
that makes it happen.
And you're building
it, building it,
and you send it up
to the universe.
>>NOORY: You're scaring me.
[THEME MUSIC]
Well, welcome to this
edition of "Beyond Belief."
We've got a great guest for you.
Patti Negri is an American
psychic, a medium,
a television personality,
and a very published author.
And what we're going to talk
about on "Beyond Belief" today
will blow your mind.
Patti, welcome to the program.
>>NEGRI: Thank you
so much, George.
I am thrilled to be here.
>>NOORY: How did you get
involved in being a psychic?
How did that happen for you?
>>NEGRI: I think I was
just born this way.
When I was a little
kid, I just knew things.
I traveled in other worlds.
I would talk to spirits.
And it was never
taught out of me.
My mom was just like, yeah,
grandma did that, too.
So it was never,
like, weird or evil.
>>NOORY: It's genetic, huh?
>>NEGRI: It's genetic.
It's genetic.
I think it's kind of
genetic on both sides.
So that psychic part
was just a knowing.
The medium part was I was
talking to dead people
since that same age.
And even the witchey part
was I would find myself
in the backyard, knowing if
I put the mint from my mom's
garden in her purse,
she'd have more money.
It's just kind of this--
>>NOORY: And it worked, huh?
>>NEGRI: It worked.
>>NOORY: Mint, huh?
>>NEGRI: Mint.
>>NOORY: You don't have to
have any on you, do you?
>>NEGRI: Sure I do.
No.
>>NOORY: I'll get that later.
What did your friends
say about this?
>>NEGRI: Well, I was actually
really shy when I was a kid,
which people who
know me as an adult--
>>NOORY: You had friends, right?
>>NEGRI: I did have friends.
I think-- well, my first
friend-- my first seance,
I was seven or eight.
And I was always kind of
obsessed with the dead,
but not in a scary
or morbid way.
Just I talked to them.
So my first-- my best friend
from birth was Sherry Jones.
So we went in the hallway,
and we closed all the doors.
And I didn't know dead people.
So I called in Marilyn Monroe
and John Kennedy, anybody--
>>NOORY: Really--
>>NEGRI: That a little
seven- or eight-year-old
knows in the late '60s.
>>NOORY: And you connected?
>>NEGRI: Oh my god.
Well, I don't know that
I connected with them.
But my windowless,
lightless hall
filled with orbs and shadows.
They were flying
through this room.
So Sherry and I jumped up, ran
out of the house screaming.
But I was jumping up and
down going, oh my gosh.
It's real, and
it's controllable.
It was my first time actually
really lifting the veil.
I wasn't so good at shutting it.
I ran out the door.
But yeah.
>>NOORY: What
techniques do you use
to connect with the other side?
>>NEGRI: I use--
I think it's a big combination.
Because I've always
been doing it--
>>NOORY: Or does it just happen?
>>NEGRI: It just happens.
Now, I have a complete
on/off switch,
because the more
you get into it,
I don't want to be
at the grocery store
like, your dead mother
wants to talk to you.
I have an on and off switch.
And when you kind
of create that,
it makes both sides stronger.
I can go through the day
being regular and then,
OK, let's talk to spirits.
Let's look into the future.
Let's talk to
elementals and things.
I think because I did it
before I learned about it,
I don't go, oh, that's
clairaudience, clairsentience,
clairvoyance, claircognizance.
It just kind of
mushes in together.
So it's like, here
are the spirits.
We talk to them.
>>NOORY: But when
you connect, Patti,
how do you know
you've connected?
>>NEGRI: It is kind
of otherworldly.
Again, once--
>>NOORY: You just know?
>>NEGRI: You just know, because
there's somebody there talking
to you or because
you just start seeing
a story, seeing a future,
seeing, smelling, tasting.
All the senses squish in because
I don't separate them so much.
So I don't know if I'm
OK, your Uncle Fred
wants to talk to you.
I'm not sitting--
I don't want to use
my left brain to go,
am I seeing him on my
outside of my head?
Or am I seeing on my
inside of my head?
I try not to delineate,
because I really
try to shut down that left
logical brain and just allow.
>>NOORY: I had heard that
when you open up this portal
to let these entities
through, anything
can come through, good or bad.
Has that happened to you?
>>NEGRI: It has happened to me.
But I learned really early
on that we can control that.
I firmly believe that this
is our realm of existence,
that the other side, whatever
it is-- good, bad, elemental,
spirits, beings of all sorts--
that this is our realm.
And because I've
always believed that,
it's pretty much been true.
But I do think you have
to say who you allow in.
It's not that crazy.
It's like you
don't let any-- you
don't open the front
door of your house
and let anybody in, the
serial killer next door.
>>NOORY: You better not.
>>NOORY AND NEGRI:
You better not.
>>NEGRI: So the same thing
with working with spirit--
if you, OK, I want
to lift the veil,
I want to talk to spirits,
my guide, the ghost,
whatever, be specific.
OK, only good or light beings,
only relatives, only ancestors,
only people for my own
good, good and light beings.
And guess what?
That's what you get.
It's not that complicated.
Whether you're
working a divination,
whether you're working with
dowsing rods or pendulums
or even a Ouija board,
because I know you
don't like Ouija boards--
>>NOORY: I don't
like Ouija boards.
>>NEGRI: But see, I've safely
used them since I was a kid
because I've--
>>NOORY: Maybe
you've been lucky.
>>NEGRI: I've been lucky.
Yeah, when I've allowed--
like if I'm doing
something where OK, we do
want to channel
the darker spirits
there, that is when you
can get into some trouble.
But I'm allowing it.
But at least I'm
well-trained enough.
I know how to shut it down.
I'm not taking anything home.
>>NOORY: What is the scariest
moment that you've ever
had that something happened?
>>NEGRI: I think the scariest
moment I ever had was
when a cameraman burst into
flames during a seance.
>>NOORY: A cameraman
burst into flames?
>>NEGRI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: What happened?
>>NEGRI: Well, it was a house.
It was an old house right in
my neighborhood, actually,
the Hollywood Hills.
It was built by Charlie
Chaplin and for his girlfriend
then, Mary Astor.
After they lived there, then
the Rolling Stones manager
bought it.
So the Rolling Stones lived
there, Mamas and Papas.
And Marilyn Manson moved
in and lived there.
He was my neighbor
for seven years.
And he recorded.
So the house itself looks
like a haunted house,
feels like a haunted house.
It looks like it was built
by a mason or something.
Oh, there's 12 of
those, sacred geometry.
It attracts creative,
chaotic, somewhat dark people.
So they were doing a
documentary about the house.
And we were doing a seance there
as part of the documentary.
My one thing is, though,
you have to be respectful.
That's when you get
into trouble because--
>>NOORY: To the other side.
>>NEGRI: To the other side, to
the other side because nobody
wants to be disrespected.
Neither do spirits.
And this one kid--
maybe because he was on TV.
I don't know.
But he started
being a smart aleck.
So we would be getting
some good information.
And he'd say something.
And I felt the spirits
getting agitated.
So first, really cool things
happened, like something
and he said something.
And the French doors flew open.
And everybody's going, ah.
>>NOORY: Like, slammed open.
>>NEGRI: Like, slammed open.
And then that happened again.
And then the energy's building.
Energy's building.
And then they said something
else really stupid.
And then the
speakers on the floor
came on, this white noise.
Everybody's ah.
Again, we look later.
They weren't even plugged in.
But it's building.
It's building.
We're using the Ouija.
We got something about
the dirt basement,
something that had horrible
happened in the early 1930s.
>>NOORY: Oh, boy.
Somebody buried down there?
>>NEGRI: I don't know.
But there was some trafficking
weird stuff in some bad times
there.
And he again said
something stupid.
And not him, but my cameraman
facing him literally
burst into flames
like a V up his back.
Everybody's screaming.
And I all of a
sudden pull medium,
which Patti becomes
medic, which I am.
It's like, drop and roll.
I'm calling in my guardians
and shut this down.
Shut this down.
And I don't care what we're
filming, no one bursts
into flames on my watch.
But the cameraman, he
was a total skeptic.
He was like, oh my gosh.
He was not in front of
a fireplace or anything.
>>NOORY: He wasn't a
skeptic after that.
>>NEGRI: He wasn't a skeptic.
He goes, no, I'm fine.
His shirt burnt off him.
It poofed off him like
it was a synthetic.
But it was a cotton.
It should not have went poof.
And for me, the coolest
thing is that the cameraman
who caught on fire, he showed
me his back afterwards.
And it looked like he had went
and got a tattoo of a dragon.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>NEGRI: Open
mouth, short teeth--
>>NOORY: Etched right on him--
>>NEGRI: The winged-- into
the shape of a serpent.
And that is the exact--
>>NOORY: That's freaky--
>>NEGRI: Energy.
That is the exact
energy I called in
to shut down the seance.
>>NOORY: I had a chance to
interview psychic Marla Frees
about her abilities to want that
connection with the other side.
What do people
generally look for when
they think they're psychic?
What do they want?
What are they trying
to do with their life?
>>MARLA FREES: Well,
I think that all of us
need connection, need
connection to a source.
I think it's very
important, even
for the science-based people.
Science-based people who want to
ignore the idea of God or they
think they're
beyond that, they're
getting downloads all the time.
They're getting information.
But sometimes, ego makes them
think that it's theirs, right?
It's just them.
It's their intelligence
that makes them so smart.
So the dynamic of being
connected, we all need that.
And the psychic
connection that we
make to another
consciousness, my goodness,
it makes us feel as
though we're not alone,
as though we're part
of a system, part
of a universal consciousness,
part of a larger consciousness
system.
>>NOORY: Do you find that some
people have misperceptions
about the psychic people?
>>FREES: Oh, yeah.
It's really kind of sad.
I did, too-- made
fun of them, thought
the people talking to the
dead were crazy, all of it.
I had lots of judgment about
it, until it happened to me.
I think the dynamic
is how we reframe it,
because people keep thinking
that it's not biblical
or it's not Christian or it's--
and oh my goodness,
the Bible is filled--
>>NOORY: Or it's demonic.
>>MARLA FREES: Yes.
>>NOORY: Some people think that.
>>MARLA FREES: Well, of
course, because anything
that threatens someone else's
reality is challenging to them.
They like to make it wrong.
But the Bible's
filled with prophecy,
vision, a precognition.
It's all about that.
So psychic functioning is
actually science-based.
>>NOORY: Patti, do
you agree with Marla?
>>NEGRI: Yes, I
completely agree.
My grandfather was a very
academic atheist leader,
hung out with Isaac Asimov
and Carl Sagan and all
these people.
He thought anything to do
with spirituality or religion
was a weakness.
But I-- and he wrote
about religion.
>>NOORY: But now, Carl
was a believer, though.
>>NEGRI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Sagan was.
>>NEGRI: But they had all
these very academic things.
But I read his work now.
And it's like, oh, grandpa,
we don't believe so different.
You just use different words.
If you take it down to
energy, the true line
between, whether you're
using very scientific words
or Judeo-Christian words
or pagan or New Age words,
the truth there is the same.
You just-- who cares
what the names are?
>>NOORY: What does
magic mean to you?
>>NEGRI: Magick with
a K means to me--
again, you're not pulling
a rabbit out of a hat.
You're causing a real shift.
It's not illusion.
It's a change and shift.
So magick isn't a spell
working or isn't a shift
of whatever you're doing.
>>NOORY: Is it
something occultist?
>>NEGRI: It's
certainly occultist.
Yeah.
But it could be--
it doesn't have to be.
To me, magick could
also be somebody
goes to their evangelical church
and they have a faith healing
and it's there.
That's magick.
>>NOORY: All right.
Well, Jason Louv had a chance
to be on "Beyond Belief" with me
and talked about his
definition of what is magic.
To you, what is magic?
>>JASON LOUV: There's a couple
ways to answer that question.
I think that as
Crowley defined it,
any willed intentional
act is a magical act.
So it's any time a human
being puts their will out
into the world.
I like to say that
spiders weave webs.
Snails build shells.
Human beings create
meaning and exteriorize
story and meaning into the world
in an attempt to control it.
All of that is magic.
But more specifically, there
is a specific thing called
the Western magical
tradition, which involves,
I would say, a graded
practice of ritual.
And what magical ritual really
is is not the Hollywood version
of some type of--
>>NOORY: Conjuring up stuff
and things like that--
>>LOUV: Christopher
Lee, all of that.
What magic really is is
creating a temporary space
through ritual to shift your
consciousness into somewhere
else, to intentionally-- so
for instance, when I came here,
we're on a set.
So essentially, we're doing a
magical ritual where we're here
and our consciousness is
engaged in creating this show.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>LOUV: And it won't
be out on the street.
It won't be at the airport.
You're completely
different because you
have a different surrounding.
So with magic, you
create a ritual space
specifically to do
something like talk
to a god, which represents
an aspect of the universe
that you would like
to know more about,
or to exteriorize
and define your will
in a specific way of what you
want to happen in your life.
And there are many, many
different types of it.
And there are many
different kinds of it
in different cultures
throughout the world.
So I also use magic
as a catch-all phrase
for any of these
techniques for altering
consciousness-- shamanism,
tantra, esoteric Buddhism,
all of these things.
I use the word "magic"
to denote all of them.
But that's really what it is.
So you can think of
it as meditation.
If someone is meditating,
they're internal.
They're sitting on a
mat and going within,
where a magical ritual
is exteriorizing outside
of yourself, using symbols
and tools to represent
one's own consciousness
outside of yourself
and then to change
it and manipulate it,
almost like a building
a sand mandala
as the Tibetans would do.
>>NOORY: A lot of people
confuse magic with illusion,
as you pointed out
earlier, don't they?
Why is that?
>>NEGRI: Well, most people
aren't thinking about it.
They hear the word "magic."
And if they're not in the
spiritual world or occultist
world, they think card
tricks or disappearing,
cutting the girl in half--
>>NOORY: Which are great tricks.
>>NEGRI: Which are great tricks.
And they are tricks.
And I like actually the
trend in magic, because I
love that kind of magic.
I've been hanging out at the
Magic Castle for decades.
But they're more and more
using the word "illusionist"
than "magic."
I like that, that they
themselves are differentiating
it more than we even are.
>>NOORY: Why the K at
the end of your magick?
>>NEGRI: I forget who it was.
But it was in the early
Wicca ceremonial magic.
And they put the K
on to differentiate.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
And it does.
>>NEGRI: And it does.
>>NOORY: When you look
at it, you go, this
looks a little kind of evil
compared to regular magic.
But it's really not, is it?
>>NEGRI: It's not evil at all.
It could be anything you
want, but it's shift.
It's change.
Just what he said
it beautifully.
It's that you are
creating something.
You are creating this
world, whether you're
doing ritual or spell
work, whatever it is.
>>NOORY: Would you
say you're a magician?
>>NEGRI: I would
say I'm a magician.
I don't use that
term a lot, but yeah.
I could say I'm a shaman.
I'm a magician.
>>NOORY: Are you a sorcerer?
>>NEGRI: I'm a sorcerer.
Sure.
>>NOORY: You do
all those things?
>>NEGRI: I do.
>>NOORY: What are
your favorites?
>>NEGRI: Well, I'm about
empowering people or letting
people see their power.
So if we're doing a ritual
or we're doing a spell,
I want people to
be able to really--
you don't always
want to go by fate.
Fate takes the easy--
destiny takes the easy path.
If you want to
shift it, you want
to make that magic
happen and see
that you really are
in charge of your life
so much more than
you think you are.
>>NOORY: Is magic a
little bit about fate?
>>NEGRI: Well, it is.
You do have to--
again, that's why I
think to do magic,
to do this kind-- to do
spell work and magic,
you really have to have a
sense of right and wrong
or integrity or moral
code, not morality like who
does what, but that moral code.
>>NOORY: Karma?
>>NEGRI: Karma.
Karma's a good-- it's
an Eastern philosophy
because you are causing shift.
So you have to look.
There is cause and effect,
action and reaction.
So my idea is to do magic--
OK.
Say the water runs
down the hill.
The water runs down the hill.
But you have a
house on the hill.
And you want some
of that water, too.
But it's over there.
The water runs down the
hill to the village,
and the village loves the water.
To do a magic working,
you would build a dam
and take that water.
And now, you've got the water.
To me, unethical
magic, bad magic--
I don't use black or white--
is if you take all the water.
Then those villagers
don't have any water.
They're going to die or
they're going to get mad.
>>NOORY: And then you
sell it back to them.
>>NEGRI: You sell
them-- there's commerce.
No, but they get mad.
Or they come and kill you.
Ethical magic would be
you take what you need.
That's a spell working.
That's causing the shift.
I need water over here,
but they get water, too.
And again, if you could
create that in your magic
where you're not messing up
other people, then create it.
>>NOORY: So generally,
magic is something good.
>>NEGRI: In my working,
it is something good,
because if I do
something bad, then
I have to live in that world.
>>NOORY: How
important, Patti, is
energy tied into this, because
I've seen a lot of people
with negative energy.
And things just don't
go well for them at all.
It compiles.
More things pile on.
The more negative they are,
the worse things get for them.
>>NEGRI: Yep.
Energy is everything,
everything.
>>NOORY: I agree.
>>NEGRI: We're all energy.
We're not solid.
Seventh-grade science--
this isn't solid.
We are moving energy.
So that's the shift.
And if things start
going awry, they're
going to-- you get in
the spin and going awry.
But you can shift that.
People don't know
they can shift that.
And they get so used to it.
They fall into, my life sucks.
And they keep going on.
But that's where
magic would come in
or faith or belief system.
I'm a big believer
in that mind, body,
spirit that 200,000 books are
written about, because you do.
You have to believe it, or
you'll never surpass your mind.
You have to take action.
Sitting on the couch
won't get you there.
And the spirit, that's
the energy behind it.
Whether it's faith-- going
to church or temple--
or you're doing a spell
working or a ritual
or you're doing a vision
board or affirmations,
whatever it is, you
have to believe,
you have to take
action, and then
that spirit is the battery
power that makes it happen.
>>NOORY: I had a guy I
worked with in St. Louis who
every day, he would come in with
a black cloud over his head.
He would start
his day by saying,
I'm not going to have
a good day today.
>>NEGRI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: What does
that do to you when you
program yourself to think that?
>>NEGRI: That makes you
have a bad day every day.
He's doing it.
He is-- even getting
into science and sciences
of language, you
are confirming that.
And you are creating that.
>>NOORY: How do you change that?
>>NEGRI: Again, that's why
I like magic and ritual,
because a nice big--
again, a big shift is
when you can consciously
change it, because you have to
change your thought pattern.
You have to take
action to do it.
So again, all of a sudden, if
you're working a moon cycle
on it or you're doing
a big candle working
or you've got your
herbs and your oils
and you're dancing under the
full moon, all of a sudden,
you're taking a tangible
action to add to the thought
process, to add to the spirit
or magic or whoever, whatever
you're calling in, which you
could just take down to energy.
>>NOORY: Is it fun?
>>NEGRI: It's fun.
>>NOORY: You enjoy doing it.
>>NEGRI: I love
doing it because--
>>NOORY: You seem upbeat.
You seem like a nice person.
The times I've talked to
you, you've been nice.
>>NEGRI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: I don't see
anything evil about you.
>>NEGRI: Yeah.
I love people.
I love life.
And I honestly have been able--
and I like to create the
life I want and I love.
And I'm a total manifester.
And I've been able to create the
life I want and love completely
doing positive magic.
You don't have to
do negative magic.
I've beat on--
>>NOORY: I like
that, positive magic.
>>NEGRI: Positive magic.
To prove my health
thing, I decided
I would do the world's
hardest obstacle course.
I'd get that TV show, "Wipeout."
I live in Hollywood.
So I'm not that athletic.
So I beat literally
70,000, 80,000 people
to do the world's
hardest obstacle course.
And then I'm like,
well, I can't cook.
Get on "MasterChef."
I beat another 100,000 people
to cook for Gordon Ramsay.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>NEGRI: Now, I didn't do that
by when you're at the audition
with 100,000 people, going, oh,
I hope they break their foot.
Oh, I hope there's--
I was like--
>>NOORY: You didn't wish
evil things on them.
>>NEGRI: No, I wished
them good luck.
I hope you do great.
Oh my gosh, you look fabulous.
The more you're
putting that out there,
that's what you're
getting, because you're
creating that world.
If people can get that,
oh, no, hold on to mine,
that's not serving them.
This is serving them.
>>NOORY: Is that
creating a spell?
Is that the same thing?
>>NEGRI: That could
be creating a spell.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: What is a spell?
>>NEGRI: A spell is I'm going
to take this and shift this.
It's not working.
I want a love spell.
I want a money spell.
I want a health spell.
I want to get a new home spell.
>>NOORY: Are they affirmations?
>>NEGRI: They can
be affirmations.
Affirmations, though, are
just a thought process.
A spell working--
again, number one,
it incorporates that
psychological mind, body,
spirit thing because it
also comes in three forms.
In a spell working, first,
you have to do the creation.
And that's like,
OK, what do I want?
Oh, I want love.
So oh, I should have some
fire in that passion.
So I'm going to
do a candle spell.
Oh, I should do it on a Friday.
That's the day of Venus.
That's love.
Oh, maybe I should
do it on a new moon.
That's the creation,
which is mind.
And then the body,
that's the working.
I am carving that candle.
I am putting that dragon's
blood in the mortar and pestle.
And then there's the spirit--
>>NOORY: Eyes of newt
and stuff like that.
>>NEGRI: Eye of newt.
Yes, I use it often.
And then the spirit part,
that's the dispatch.
Any spell working, you also have
the sending out to the heavens.
That's the dancing around
or the drumming around
or the just sending
it out to the heavens,
universe, God, gods,
whatever you believe in.
So it fits into that.
So the spell has the
tangible working to it
versus just an affirmation
or just a prayer.
Prayer has the hope
and the thought.
You have the spirit of the god
and you have the brainpower.
But you don't have that
action in the middle so much.
>>NOORY: Why do you
need things in a spell?
Hair, clothes-- why
do you need objects?
>>NEGRI: Well, you
don't need anything.
I believe actually that we
have everything we need.
But if you have an
automatic dishwasher,
use it if you just served
dinner for 20 people,
because things have attributes.
Again, fire is passion.
Fire is moving and passion.
Earth is grounding.
So you need some rocks in it.
Something air element, you're
going to burn some incense
to take it off into the air.
I work very
elementally in my work.
So you don't need things.
But things, hair--
I wouldn't work with
anybody else's hair
because, again, I don't do
spell working on other people
unless I have their permission.
>>NOORY: But some people do.
>>NEGRI: Some people do.
But if I can control someone
else without their permission,
again, I believe that,
therefore, someone
can control me.
And I don't want
someone to control me.
>>NOORY: I talked with the
Salem witch, Leanne Marrama.
And she was telling about
spells and things you
put in there to create them.
>>LEANNE MARRAMA: Each spell
requires different ingredients.
If I was going to make a
love spell or a love mixture,
I would add things that
made me feel loved--
roses, hibiscus, beautiful
flowers with fragrant scents--
>>NOORY: Lavenders--
>>MARRAMA: Lavender to
relax you, beautiful things.
And I'd put it in there.
And I would--
>>NOORY: Boil it up--
>>MARRAMA: Cook it up.
You can add-- you can burn it
and let it rise to the heavens.
>>NOORY: That's pretty
pointed, isn't it?
>>NEGRI: Yes, and it's true.
That's exactly what I would
put in a love spell, too.
We do.
We picture roses.
Have them take a rose petal
bath, red passion, pink love,
all those things
because, again, we need
the psychological part of it.
We need the real attribute that
those things have within them.
>>NOORY: Is putting
on a spell easy?
Can anybody do it?
Or do I have to go to a psychic
or a witch to get it done?
>>NEGRI: No, I believe
anybody can do it.
I think, again, so long as you
have a good sense of integrity,
so long as you're not doing
anything on anybody else
without their permission,
I think anybody can do it.
>>NOORY: That would
be a curse, right?
>>NEGRI: That would-- well, no.
Even if you want to--
OK.
In my belief system,
a good love spell
is bring me the love of my life.
Make them funny,
tall, this, and that.
That's good.
I can do that.
>>NOORY: That's got power.
It's positive.
>>NEGRI: Yes.
But if you go bring me Bob
Jones, as good as that--
I know he's my soulmate.
>>NOORY: What's wrong with that?
>>NEGRI: Because I don't
have Bob Jones's permission.
I'm controlling Bob Jones.
I can make Bob Jones
fall in love with you.
And if it's not--
>>NOORY: But you
don't have permission
on the first person,
either, when you say,
bring me my love of my life.
>>NEGRI: No, because
then the universe--
God, gods, whatever-- brings
you the love of your life.
But if you're
asking for Bob Jones
and if it's not supposed
to be Bob Jones,
I can make Bob Jones
fall in love with you.
And it'd be the worst
relationship you ever had.
It'd be like that
stalker who's obsessed.
And you'd be going,
get rid of it.
Get rid of it, because
we're controlling Bob Jones
without his permission.
>>NOORY: I don't want Bob
Jones to fall in love with me.
>>NEGRI: No, I don't, either.
I hear he's terrible.
And then if you get
Bob Jones's permission,
then you probably don't
need the love spell, anyway.
>>NOORY: That's interesting.
>>NEGRI: So to me, that's--
so people think,
well, it doesn't
sound bad, oh, because I know
Bob Jones is my soulmate.
He just doesn't know it.
Or I know that we
just had a fight.
No, I won't.
>>NOORY: I used to interview
a witch, Patti, on "Coast
to Coast," on the radio show.
She's since long passed.
Evelyn Paglini was her name.
And she talked about candles
used for different rituals
and spells.
Different colors would
depict certain things.
Is that the case?
You agree with that?
>>NEGRI: Yes, I do.
And there are standard colors.
Like I said before,
red is passion.
Pink is love, green
or good for money--
>>NOORY: White or
blue or whatever--
>>NEGRI: White, blue--
white works for everything.
Black pulls--
black's not negative.
It pulls out.
But I'm also of
the belief system
that if over whatever
the book says
or what standard or yes, red
does create passion, if to you,
I'm sorry, chartreuse
means passion,
I would say you should
use chartreuse then
because I think, again, to
be in this belief system,
your truth is more important
than this is official.
>>NOORY: Have you ever
written a book on just spells?
>>NEGRI: I've never written
a book on just spells.
My book does have spells in it.
Mine's kind of like an
overall philosophy of this.
But I go into everything.
I have love magic.
I have weight loss
and health magic.
I have how to talk to the dead.
Yeah, it's just kind
of like this overview.
>>NOORY: If you
want a better job,
can you cast a spell for that?
>>NEGRI: Of course, you can.
And they're very successful.
>>NOORY: Is it
better for someone
to go to you or for them
to do it themselves?
>>NEGRI: If they're willing to
do it themselves, that's great.
Again, what I'm going
to bring into it
is expertise, both
in what to use--
>>NOORY: And a track record--
>>NEGRI: And a track record and
their belief system, probably,
because the biggest
problem with people--
not that they can't do it, but
that they don't believe they
can do it.
Again, intent is
number-one ingredient
in any spell working, intent.
And if they think, oh,
she's going to do it better,
they're going to believe.
And therefore, it's
going to work better.
But I still don't
go do for them.
I do it with them.
It's like, you are going
to participate with me,
even if we're on the telephone,
even if we're on a Zoom call,
because even though
I have the expertise
and I have that direct
path up to the heavens
and I know what to do and I know
how to move and direct energy,
you are the one who wants this.
You have that passion
and desire behind it
more than I ever will.
So the two of us together--
1 plus 1 equals 6.
>>NOORY: Are spells done
for people who cannot reach
their goals?
Here's an example.
Let's say I want a nice car.
Get a good job, make enough
money, and go get it.
What do you need a
spell for for that?
>>NEGRI: Yeah, you
don't actually.
That's a really
great answer to it.
But as a rule, you
look at people--
because I usually do a
session with them first.
It's like they don't
get a really good job.
Either they're not
going to go look for it,
or they don't believe
they're worthy of it.
Or when they were
seven years old,
their dad told them
they were going
to never amount to anything.
Or when they were four years
old, their dad or their mom
said, it's really hard.
Oh, those rich people.
They get thought patterns to it.
So part of it is very
much psychological.
We have to break
those belief systems,
these limiting belief systems.
Like I said in the beginning,
we give our power away.
I don't deserve that Cadillac.
Yeah, you do.
So let's shift
your belief system.
Let's add some magic to
it and make it happen.
>>NOORY: Can spells be
applied to everything?
>>NEGRI: Spells can be--
>>NOORY: Or are
there limitations?
>>NEGRI: I think
you have to stay
within the laws of physics.
If somebody said, make
me a foot taller--
>>NOORY: Or the laws of magic--
>>NEGRI: The laws of magic.
I want to fly
without an airplane.
I don't think-- maybe
someday, that will be doable,
when they figure out all those
other things in our brain.
Right now, we can't do that.
But pretty much, I do believe
that so long as you're not
hurting somebody else, you're
not affecting somebody else's
life, spells really work.
And you could do what you
want to do and step into it.
>>NOORY: Do you chant
during your spells?
>>NEGRI: I do a lot with sound.
I do.
I do a lot with sound.
>>NOORY: Give me an
example of a chant.
>>NEGRI: OK.
Excuse my voice.
I'm not a singer.
Here's one that will
call in spirits.
If you really want
to lift and do the--
[CHANTING VOWEL SOUNDS]
Vowels talk to spirit.
Vowels open up.
Think about it.
Every sacred word
is a vowel-- "amen,"
"om," Native American "hey".
Eastern "ya."
It opens up this
crown of illumination.
So this [CHANTING VOWEL SOUNDS],,
it's working in to open up.
But say if I'm doing a money
spell or something, money here,
money now, money, it is mine.
Money here, money now,
money, it is mine.
And you're building
it, building it.
And you send it up
to the universe.
>>NOORY: You're scaring me.
>>NEGRI: Sorry.
I do scare people.
>>NOORY: You're scaring me.
>>NEGRI: But it's not
scary in a bad way.
It's this grasp,
hold on, believe--
magic, energy.
>>NOORY: Do you know
the witch Fiona Horne?
>>NEGRI: I've not met
her, but I respect her.
She's great.
>>NOORY: Good person.
But I had a chance
to interview her
on "Beyond Belief"
about gratitude spells.
When you cast a spell, you're
trying to accomplish something.
Can you give us an example?
>>FIONA HORNE: Well, I can give
you a really recent example
when I was just on
tour in Australia
doing a spoken word event
for my "Art of Witch" book.
And I did an interactive magical
experience with the audience.
So there were over 200 people.
And it was in the Blue
Mountains just west of Sydney,
a very magical place.
And we all did a spell together.
So I invited everyone
to think of something
that they're grateful for.
And it was like a
ritual of gratitude,
but you could call it a spell.
It was kind of
bridging both worlds.
So I invited everyone to
stand up, first and foremost.
Take a deep breath.
Clear the slate.
So interlace their
10 fingers-- a little
bit of witchey yoga here.
Wipe the slate
clean on the inhale,
opening themselves up to
the concept that anything
is possible.
Flip their hands.
Exhale.
Anchor into the present moment.
And anchor into the intention
for the spell, which
is to create more reasons
to be grateful in our lives.
And then I invited everyone to
think of something that they're
grateful for, to name
it, to give it a name,
and to then place it in
the palm of their hand.
So we've got 200
people doing this.
And everyone's holding
their hands up.
And the reason to be
grateful and the name
is in the palm of their hands.
And then I invited everyone
to throw their reason
to be grateful into the
center of the space.
We were all together
in this sacred space
that was determined.
And they-- and to name it, to
say the name, to call it out.
So this large explosion
of sound happened
as everyone called out the name
of what they were grateful for.
And then we allowed
those reasons
to be grateful to
circulate in the room.
And I was guiding
them with my voice.
And I sang a goddess
chant to energize
the reasons to be grateful
and to have them magnetize
and become something that
could attract more reasons
to be grateful into
the lives of everyone.
So I sang this goddess
chant, which goes--
I'll sing it for you.
(SINGING) "Isis, Astarte, Diana,
Hecate, Demeter, Kali, Anana."
(SPEAKING) And I sang that
over and over and over.
And you could feel the
energy building in the room.
And everyone's arms are up.
And energy's building.
And then I said the incantation.
"By one, this spell is done.
By two, it shall come true.
By three, so must it be.
By four, for the good of all.
By five, our dreams come alive."
And it was like this--
everyone sort of just went ah
and felt this shift of energy
in the room.
And that was the spell cast.
Now, this is the result. The
amount of emails and messages
I got on Facebook
from people saying,
oh my god, my life was
transformed in that moment.
The next day, this happened,
this happened, this happened.
Or my reason to be--
to feel joyful in
life came true.
And I was transformed.
And this is weeks later,
I'm getting this feedback
from people.
So I would consider that most
recently a dramatic spell.
And it shows that you don't need
a lot of fancy tools and props.
When we think of spells,
we think, oh, we've
got to have all these
candles, all these crystals,
this exotic herb from the
far-flung corner of the Earth.
And it's not necessary.
A spell or ritual that creates
profound transformation
and positive
transformation in life
can happen just with your
desire, your willingness
to believe anything is possible,
breath, movement, sound,
and intention.
>>NOORY: So she echoes many of
the things you've already said.
>>NEGRI: Completely.
Every word she said,
I agree with 100%.
And that's my favorite chart,
the "Isis, Astarte, Diana,
Hecate."
Yeah.
Yeah, she's great.
>>NOORY: What are
potions and spells?
>>NEGRI: Potions and spells--
well, potions are a
mix of things you put.
OK.
Here's a love potion for you.
I work-- I personally do work
with a lot of essential oils
and things.
So you're putting the different
attributes-- lavender in this--
>>NOORY: You don't
necessarily drink it.
>>NEGRI: You don't drink it.
I rarely drink it.
No, I don't actually,
because really, you
have to keep me out of
the kitchen, anything
that's ingestible.
But you might smell it.
You might put the oils on you.
You might work with them.
>>NOORY: You mix it.
>>NEGRI: You might put
drops in your bath.
You mix it.
But again, it's intent, like
she said, and the creation.
Spell working is,
again, when you
are I am shifting the natural
trajectory of what life is.
I am bringing in this
or bringing in that.
I'm shifting the natural
pattern of things.
>>NOORY: Potions are
done for specific things?
>>NEGRI: Potions can be.
Or it could be a
general enhancer.
I make a lot of enhancers to
multiply, multiply whatever it
is you're feeling or to relax.
Just like people
into aromatherapy,
they're a kind of
a form of potion.
It's like, oh, sniff this to
relax and tea tree oil to that
and lavender to that.
But potions itself are done
ritualistically or spell
working-wise.
So they've got I'm doing
them under a moon cycle
or I'm doing into
a sacred space.
And I'm putting my intent
into them, as well as
all the ingredients.
>>NOORY: How do you differ,
Patti, from a witch?
>>NEGRI: I am a witch.
>>NOORY: Oh, you're
a witch, too.
>>NEGRI: I'm a witch.
>>NOORY: So you're a psychic.
You do it all.
>>NEGRI: Yeah, I am a witch.
I claim a witch.
I'm a good witch.
>>NOORY: I was going to say.
>>NEGRI: And I use
the term "good."
I don't like white or black.
But I'm a big fan of
Glinda in "Wizard of Oz."
I actually have that
great big pink dress.
I do.
So I'm a good witch.
>>NOORY: Or "Bewitched"?
>>NEGRI: Or "Bewitched."
I love--
>>NOORY: Can you
wiggle your nose?
>>NEGRI: I've been
working on that one.
But I haven't got it down yet.
>>NOORY: Twinkle twinkle.
>>NEGRI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: What's the difference,
though, between a good witch
and a bad witch?
What does a bad witch do?
>>NEGRI: Well, I think a bad
witch is someone-- again,
I don't talk dark and light.
A bad which is somebody who
doesn't know the consequence,
who doesn't look at the
cause and effect, action
and reaction.
A bad witch is the one
who takes all the water
from the villagers.
>>NOORY: And doesn't care.
>>NEGRI: And doesn't care and
then will face the consequence.
Either they'll come up and
beat up them and kill them.
Or they'll all die or
doesn't care at all.
To me, that's the difference.
>>NOORY: If you had a
preference, of course,
you would take the
good over the bad.
How many people do that?
>>NEGRI: I think
most people do that.
I think most people are good.
I am the ultimate optimist.
But people want to be good.
People want to be happy.
People want to be safe.
People want to be--
people don't want to--
even when they are,
oh, I hate that person
or I curse that
person, it's usually
just out of their
own insecurities
or out of whatever.
I think it's a smaller minority
of people who are really evil.
Yes, they do exist.
Yes, of course, they exist.
>>NOORY: Of course.
>>NEGRI: We see it all the time.
But I think most people who
go into the magical arts,
the occult arts, witchcraft,
most of them, again,
are usually gifted of some sort.
They do know there's more
out there because they
see it or they feel
it or they sense it.
And most of them do
want to do good with it,
whether for
themselves just for I
want a good life myself
or on a big global scale.
>>NOORY: What has been
the most satisfying aspect
of all of this for you?
>>NEGRI: I think when I see
people turn on that little
light bulb of--
again, not because a spell
worked or a ritual worked but,
again, seeing
that, oh, wow, they
have more control
over their lives,
over their path, over
what they're doing.
They have sails on their boat.
They're just not the
wind takes them this way
and the wind takes
them that way.
Hey, put up your sail.
You have a rudder.
You can drive it--
maybe not 100%.
The storm will come.
But you really
can create and get
to where you want to go, even
when the little storms come.
>>NOORY: When people come to
you for help and assistance,
generally, what is some of
the most widespread things
they want done?
>>NEGRI: Well, love is always
first-- wanting to belong,
love.
>>NOORY: Why do they need a
psychic which for love stuff?
Why can't they go out
and find it themselves?
>>NEGRI: Well, they can.
But so many people don't.
Or again, they've got
into such a bad headspace
about it or a belief system.
I can't-- how many
people come to me.
It's like, oh, there are no
straight men in this city.
They're all married
or they're all gay.
It's like, really?
You are just chanting
that on a regular basis?
Hey, what if that's not true?
Let's create that
that's not true.
Let's open your eyes.
And then they're walking around
through life with blinders on.
And they're going to
miss that person, anyway.
>>NOORY: How long does
it take for a spell
that you may do on
someone to take effect?
>>NEGRI: It can be
immediate like that.
If they have the faith
in that, it is crazy
how fast it can take effect.
But they have a
lot to do with it.
Again, not always-- it's like,
I want a kabillion dollars.
They may not get that the next
day unless they win a lottery.
But all of a sudden, their
trajectory, their chain,
their thought patterns about
what money and abundance
and money is changes.
And everything shifts.
But it's funny.
With love and money, if they're
willing to be open to it,
it could go fast.
>>NOORY: There was an old
"Twilight Zone" episode
about a gentleman who
wanted everything.
And he found a genie and
was allowed three wishes.
But the genie told
him one thing.
He said, each wish comes
with a consequence.
And he went, eh.
I want what I want.
So he would say things like,
I want omnipotent power
on this planet.
And the genie would
grant him that.
He turned him into Hitler.
That was the consequence.
And they showed the
debacle with Hitler.
Or he'd want money,
and then he'd
have all the money in the world.
But he'd have no arms and legs.
He'd be in a bed.
So everything had a consequence.
Do you believe
that's what life is?
>>NEGRI: Yes, I will believe.
Again, versus consequence,
it is consequence.
But it is that action and
reaction, cause and effect.
And that goes right back
to science, as well as
spirituality.
What you do is going to
shift something else.
You slide the kid over on the
bed, the other kid falls off.
That's what happens.
So again, you work
it so that it's
a positive thing or
it's something you
can afford that coin to pay.
>>NOORY: Put a spell on us
that we want 10 million people
to watch this show.
>>NEGRI: OK.
We want 10 million people
to watch this show.
So we're going to
do it right here.
So picture it in your head.
Believe it.
Take a deep breath
in and then just
breathe it out to the world.
>>NOORY: Super.
Patti, thanks for being
on "Beyond Belief."
>>NEGRI: Thank you
so much, George.
>>NOORY: It's
fascinating that you
can use spells and potions
and practical ideas
to get what you want in life.
I'm going to give it a try.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]